Description:
Project Name: HIE/SDOH Referral Integration
Clinic: All Locations
Process: Implementation of the Unite US platform
TIP 2.0 Process Milestone: Health related social needs
Project Description / Purpose
Addressing social and economic needs for our members and families to fulfill their needs and maintain their health and
well-being.

Overview:
Problem Summary:
Enter description of problem or performance gap identified here. Include descriptions of
the impact to staff and/or patients.
MIKID serves under privileged families in rural communities where social and economic
resources are limited or nonexistent. MIKID as a stand-alone agency offers a variety of
services in these locations and recognizes a need for additional resources/Services
outside our scope.
The impact on families includes social and economic needs not being met. Families have
no additional support to these resources. In addition, no access to these resources
causing a great impact that leads to families vocalizing these needs to our providers.
Desired Outcome(s):
Describe the desired outcome(s) of the project
Implementation of the Unite us platform would give opportunity and access to the
resources available.
Hire a SDOH referral coordinator position to lead and coordinate with the families the
needed/requested resources.
The goal would be to have 15% of our families/members be signed up on the platform to
ensure their social and economic needs are met in 3 months.
Benefits:
Enter a description of the expected benefits here
By providing a robust implementation of the unite US platform, we can provide families
the much needed and requested resources.

Timeline:
Description of Task and Completion Dates
Task 1
Planning- Month 1
Assign roles
Lay out the process for implementation.
Coordinate with multiple departments
Task 2
Development & Implementation- Month 2
Training
Role out PPT
Task 3 Implementation- Month 2
Make the process live
Task 4 Monitoring & Evaluation- Month 3
Evaluate and adjust process a needed

Scope:
In Scope Project Objectives
Enter a description of the objectives that are in scope here.
All new Medicaid members upon admission as well as existing members in a renewal period.
Out of Scope Project Objectives or Activities
Enter description of the objectives or activities that are out of scope here.
All existing members that do not fall within a renewal period.

Team:
Team Lead: Hired SDOH Coordinator
Position Project Champion: Health Information Manager
Process Owner: Director of Health
Information Process Manager: Health Information Manager
Stakeholders
Stakeholder Title Department Organization
Az Complete Health AHCCCS Medicaid payer Southern RBHA Az Complete Health
Care 1st AHCCCS Medicaid payer Northern RBHA Care 1st
Mercy Care AHCCCS Medicaid payer Central RBHA Mercy Care
Project Team Members
Name Team Role
TBD Intake specialist- Northern area
TBD Intake specialist- Central area
TBD Intake specialist- Southern area
TBD SDOH Coordinator position