Description:
Project Name: Decrease health disparities by identifying health needs by increasing access to
preventative screenings.
Clinic: Southwest Network Pediatric Clinics
Process: Complete metabolic laboratory testing and vitals for children receiving services as
identified in best practices from SAMHSA.
TIP 2.0 Process Milestone: Process, policies, and increase health equity to patients.
Project Description / Purpose
Health disparities are inequitable and are directly related to the unequal distribution of social, political, environmental
resources. For the children that are receiving psychiatric care in Southwest Networks pediatric clinics, this comes in the
form of increased incidence of chronic conditions because of necessary prescribing of antipsychotic medications.
Identifying risk factors for childhood diabetes, hypertension, and obesity will be increased with routine, scheduled
metabolic testing for all children prescribed antipsychotic medications, which significantly increases risk factors for
chronic conditions. Completion of metabolic screenings and vitals (height, weight, blood pressure, lipid profiles, other
as clinically indicated).

Overview:
Problem Summary:
Antipsychotic prescribing for children and adolescents can elevate risk factors
for developing serious metabolic health complications that can lead to lifelong
chronic conditions (NCQA, 2024). Antipsychotic medications can lead to weight
gain, insulin resistance, hyperlipidemia, increase the risk of developing Type 2
diabetes and other cardiovascular diseases. Regular metabolic testing ensures
early detection and management of these potential side effects, safeguarding
the child's overall health and well-being while enabling the safe and effective
use of necessary psychiatric treatments.
Desired Outcome(s):
Identify risk factors that could lead to chronic conditions by offering preventative
metabolic screenings for each child prescribed antipsychotic medications. Offering
families resources to decrease the risk of developing chronic conditions through
community cares (UNITEUS) closed loop system, and other community providers.
Benefits:
Addressing risk factors are important for improving overall health, reducing health
disparities in the community.

Timeline:
Description of Task and Completion Dates
Project Charter
Task 1
Provide primary education to all staff about the process for completing labs, vitals, and best practices for
prescribing. The marketing team is completing educational literature for staff and patients/families.
This will be completed by 07/31/2024
Task 2 Identification of all patients <17 years old prescribed antipsychotic medications and are in need of
metabolic testing. Completion date: 07/06/2024
Task 3
Outreach families and schedule routine preventative screenings at their regularly scheduled medication
management appointment. Results will be shared with prescribing clinicians and primary care
providers. Completion date: 08/15/2024
Task 4 Follow up appts, via telemedicine or in person (patient choice), will provide results and provide
education, resources to families. Completion date: 09/30/2024 and ongoing process
Task 5 The quality team will assess process and offer continuous quality improvement activities. Completion
date: ongoing
* Add new rows as needed.

Scope:
In Scope Project Objectives
One of the areas the organization will focus on over the next year is to improve health equity across the
population. This will be accomplished by having an incremental increase in access to healthcare services,
including preventative screenings. Another area will be to provide continuous education to staff, patients
and stakeholders in prevention strategies and need.
Out of Scope Project Objectives or Activities
Hiring of staff dedicated to providing education, laboratory services and prevention education training to all
populations.

Team:
Team Lead: Crystal Domblisky-Klein,
MPH Project Champion: Elizabeth Odahlen, MAPC
Process Owner: Crystal Domblisky-Klein,
MPH Process Manager: Janelle Westfall, LPC
Stakeholders
Stakeholder Title Department Organization
Nahid Nadiri, MD Medical Director Administration Southwest network
Jaime Michel, MD
Tiffany Sylvester, NP Psychiatrist , BHMP Childrens division Southwest Network
AHCCCS and Mercy Care Funding sources/insurance
carriers
Project Team Members
Name Team Role
Alex Romonoski, Data Intelligence Director Data integrity and process
Katrina Noyes, MPA Chief Quality and Compliance Officer
Lana Winnie, LPC Clinical Director
Rogelio Calderon, LASAC Director of Training and Development
David Conger, LMSW Director of Quality
