Description:
Project Name: Social Determinants of Health Screening
Clinic: Arbor Medical Partner practices
Process: Distribution of screening tool, documentation of results, and closed loop referral process
for needed concerns
TIP 2.0 Process Milestone: Milestone 3
Project Description / Purpose
Screening for health-related social needs (or social determinants of health) allows a clinician to assess a comprehensive
history of lifestyle and social factors that impact health. Screening for HRSN has demonstrated a positive impact on
health outcomes, decrease in emergency room visit, and improved establishment of healthy habits. Barriers to seeking
health care, lifestyle choices, and/or safety are easier to identify and interventions offered. Screening in a pediatric
primary care practice impacts both the pediatric patient and the overall health of the family.

Overview:
Problem Summary:
Consistent and universal screening for health-related social needs of the pediatric
population improved health outcome and reduces overall healthcare costs. Screening
has also been demonstrated to decrease health disparities. Variable studies have
suggested that 19-65% of families screened report at least one HRSN. Of those who
reported a HRSN, 22-58% accepted resources to address these needs. Barriers include
time limits to address such issues, clinicians feeling unable to address identified needs,
trust and/or reluctance of patients to divulge concerns. A recent study suggests that
patients are more likely to answer HRSN screening electronically versus paper. While
access to internet is also a barrier, having access to inoffice electronic screening can help
relieve this. Thus this program strives to assess HRSN to improve health behaviors and
outcomes while decreasing barrier and disparities in receiving care.
Desired Outcome(s):
1. Institute and increase routine HRSN (SDOH) screening annually
2. Establish relationship with community based referral source to address
identified needs on screening
3. Connect families with identified needs with community resources
4. Decrease barriers to receiving health care
5. Create efficient and effective screening workflow that
Benefits:
With effective screening that limits barriers and a workflow that connects needs with
resources, a decrease in social needs that negatively impact health are decreased and
health outcomes in children, family and later adults are improved.

Timeline:
Description of Task and Completion Dates
Task 1 Assessment of current strategies for assessing HRSN within Arbor practices – Feb 29, 2024
Project Charter
Task 2 Research and choose a evidence based HRSN screening tool – March 30, 2024
Task 3 Develop relationship with community based referral organization and secure resources needed for
closed loop referral process - April 30, 2024
Task 4 Develop workflow for administering screening tool and secure resources needed - April 30, 2024
Task 5 Pilot screening workflow in 2 Arbor practices – May 20, 2024
Task 6 Assess workflow and adjust elements to improve screening process and referral system – June 15, 2024
Task 7 Educate clinician and staff in all practice on workflow for administering screening tool and connecting
families with community resources – June 25, 2024
Task 8 Initiate screening/referral workflow for all Arbor practices – July 8, 2024
* Add new rows as needed.

Scope:
In Scope Project Objectives
Objective for this project is to utilize quality improvement strategies to establish an effective and efficient HRSN
(SDOH) screening workflow for pediatric primary care practices of Arbor Medical Partner that includes a closed loop
referral process that connects families with needs with a community based referral resource.
Out of Scope Project Objectives or Activities
This project does not address area for which additional screening tools are utilized, such as behavioral health
diagnosis or developmental delay. No additional staff can be hired to meet these objectives, and minimal impact
should be made on current clinician and staff visit length.

Team:
Team Lead: Arbor Social Work – and
Karen Eynon Project Champion: Karen Eynon
Process Owner: Raegan Post Process Manager: Karen Eynon
Stakeholders
Stakeholder Title Department Organization
Karen Eynon Regional Lead Clinician Pediatrics Arbor Medical Partners
Lisa Engel Senior Regional Medical
Director Pediatrics Pediatric Associates
Tricia Juba Director of Operations Pediatrics Arbor Medical Partners
Sally Kikuchi Vice President of
Operations Pediatrics Pediatric Associates
Project Team Members
Name Team Role
Ean Goldberg Social Worker – SDOH Referral coordinator
Karen Eynon Regional Lead Clinician – TI program coordinator
Raegan Post Program Logistics Coordinator