Description:
Project Name: SDOH screen
Clinic: Pleasant Pediatrics - all clinic locations
Process: Distribution of screening tool and documentation of screening results
TIP 2.0 Process Milestone: Milestone 1c
Project Description / Purpose
SDOH (Social Determinants of Health) screening tools are helpful to identify barriers in a patient’s life that can affect
their health outcomes. Having a clear picture of our patient’s socioeconomic needs helps providers make better decisions
and direct better care and referrals specifically for their patient.
Pleasant Pediatrics has done an SDOH screening tool in the past but was not continued for varied reasons (parent
dissatisfaction, lack of resources to refer to, lack of staff to manage the care, etc). The purpose of this project is to
resume, improve and continue SDOH screening with a goal of 95% completion rate in completed screens AND proper
documentation over 8 consecutive weeks. The success of this project will improve our case identification and connect
more patients with appropriate referrals, resources, and better treatment plans based on known socioeconomic status.

Overview:
Problem Summary:
Non-medical conditions that significantly affect health and quality of life are called social
determinants of health (SDOH). In the past Pleasant Pediatrics did participate in this
type of screening but was dropped for several reasons. With participation in quality
improvement projects, Pleasant Pediatrics is determined and desires to resume and
improve on completing the screening so we can provide referrals, resources and
providers can create better treatment plans for our patients. Since it has been several
years since this tool has been regularly implemented, no referrals for resources have
been done and there has been less knowledge about patient’s socioeconomic status
when making treatment plans.
Desired Outcome(s):
Increase the number of completed SDOH screens AND proper documentation of age
appropriate patients; and thus downstream referrals and resources for patient’s and
their families.
Benefits:
The success of this project will increase our chance for identifying patients with
socioeconomic deficits and provide them with proper support, referrals, and treatment.

Timeline:
Description of Task and Completion Dates
Task 1 Review sample SDOH screening tools to help generate one tailored to Pleasant Pediatrics (3/2024)
Task 2 Create SDOH screening tool (3/2024)
Task 3 Create SDOH screening protocol process/process mapping (6/2024)
Task 4 Train and educate staff on SDOH screening protocol/process mapping (6/2024)
Task 5 Initiate SDOH screening
Task 6 Complete 1st Fishbone diagram and 5 whys with team (7/2024)
Task 7 Complete 1st PDSA cycles (7/30/2024-8/30/2024)
Task 8 Complete 2nd/Formal Fishbone diagram and 5 whys with team assignment (9/2024)
Task 9 Completed 2nd/Formal PDSA cycles assignment (9/2024)
Task 10 Update screening protocol (9/2024)
Task 11 Cross-train staff and implement final changes (Front, MA, Provider) (9/2024)

Scope:
In Scope Project Objectives
The primary objective of this project is to use quality improvement strategies to improve the completion AND
documentation for SDOH screening for all age qualifying patients.
Out of Scope Project Objectives or Activities
We are not addressing any problems related to other screening measures, introducing any new screening protocol,
hiring any new staff, or making other major changes to current protocol

Team:
Team Lead:

Project Champion:


Process Owner:


Process Manager:

Stakeholders
Stakeholder
Title
Department
Organization
Project Team Members
Name
Team Role