Description:
Project Name: Z Code Utilization - Peds
Clinic: HealthyU
Process: Documenting Z code diagnosis via the use of the HRSN tool
TIP 2.0 Process Milestone: Milestone 3
Project Description / Purpose
Identification and adding of appropriate Z Code diagnosis via the use of the HRSN screening tool allows HealthyU to
have the ability to track and stratify social determinants of health needs across the patient population, including in
children and adolescents. Current utilization of Z codes diagnoses are relatively low. The purpose of this project is to
improve the identification and utilization of Z code diagnoses via the HRSN screening tool.
Overview:
Problem Summary:
HealthyU administers HRSN screenings to all patients & patient caregivers for children
as part of the patient check-in process. However, conversion of the HRSN screening
results into trackable Z-code diagnosis is currently at 14%. This limits the clinic’s ability
to track patient identified social needs across the entire patient population.
Desired Outcome(s):
Increase the number of patients with appropriate Z-code diagnoses.
Benefits:
This process will increase the opportunity to track patient health related social needs
across the patient population to identify trends related to social determinants of health
and address any areas where there is a need for additional community
resources/support.
Timeline:
Description of Task and Completion Dates
Task 1 Meet with medical providers to determine barriers to conversion of HRSN screening results into Z-code
diagnosis (July 30)
Task 2 Complete a Root Cause Analysis to identify additional process issues (August 15)
Task 3 Identify medical providers who are excelling at Z code usage to leverage their support in the project
(August 15)
Task 4 Re-train medical providers on the Z-code diagnosis screening and attribution process (September 30)
Task 5 Monitor performance through PDSA cycles (December 31)
* Add new rows as needed.

Scope:
In Scope Project Objectives
The primary objective of this project is to utilize quality improvement strategies to increase utilization of Z-code
diagnoses.
Out of Scope Project Objectives or Activities
We are not changing the current HRSN screening process from the patient side, or changing the HRSN screening
tool.

Team:
Team Lead: Emily Bofetta Project Champion: Shane Speirs, MD
Process Owner: Sarah Davis Process Manager: Cassandra Anderson
Stakeholders
Stakeholder Title Department Organization
Shane Spiers Chief Medical Officer HealthyU
Project Team Members
Name Team Role
Lauren Havard, MD Team Co-Champion