Description:
Project Name: Implementing a new referral process
Clinic: Kids and Family Kare
Process: The provider will request referrals for a patient and send the task to a medical assistant.
The Medical assistant will then look for a specialist near the patient’s home that accepts
patient insurance. Once the referral is made and faxed to the specialist office, the patient
will receive a call from the medical assistant to share this information. In a week, the
medical assistant will contact the patient again and make sure the appointment has been
made with a specialist.
TIP 2.0 Process Milestone: Referrals
Project Description / Purpose
This new referral process will help us create better communication between the patients and ensure they are receiving
proper care.

Overview:
Problem Summary:
With our current referral process, after the referral is made, we do not reach out to
confirm an appointment has been made with the specialist, therefore, many patients do
not continue with their plan of care.
Desired Outcome(s):
Have better communication between patients and their specialists.
Benefits:
Patients will continue their plan of care and communication between primary care and
specialists will become better.

Timeline:
Description of Task and Completion Dates
Project Charter
Task 1 By 07/15/2024 inform staff of new referral implementation and start new process.
Task 2 07/29/2024 interview staff to make sure workflow has not been affected.
Task 3
08/05/2024 follow up to see if there have been any positive changes with patients scheduling
appointments with their specialists.
Task 4
08/15/2024 follow up to make sure we are receiving patient medical records correctly based on referral
logs.

Scope:
In Scope Project Objectives
1. Training and Informing Staff: Conduct training sessions to inform all relevant staff (providers, medical
assistants, administrative staff) about the new referral process and its implementation.
2. Referral Process Implementation: Ensure medical assistants locate specialists near the patient's home who
accept the patient's insurance, make the referrals, and fax the referral details to the specialist's office.
3. Patient Communication and Follow-Up: Implement a system where medical assistants call patients to
inform them about the referral and follow up after one week to confirm that the appointment has been
made with the specialist
Out of Scope Project Objectives or Activities
Out of Scope Project Objectives or Activities
1. Specialist Office Coordination: Directly coordinating with specialist offices to ensure they have received the
referral and scheduling the appointments for the patients is out of scope.
2. Insurance Verification Beyond Initial Referral: Verifying and handling any insurance issues that arise after
the initial referral process is out of scope. This includes dealing with any changes in insurance or coverage
issues that the patient might face after the referral is made.
3. Patient Transport Arrangements: Arranging transportation for patients to attend specialist appointments is
out of scope. Patients will be responsible for their own transportation to and from specialist appointments

Team:
Team Lead: Zugey Rojo Project Champion: Dr. Carlos Lopez
Process Owner: Malca Cortez Process Manager: Dr. Carlos Lopez
Stakeholders
Stakeholder Title Department Organization
Dr Carlos Lopez Provider Management - Provider Kids and Family Kare
Malca Cortez Referral coordinator Kids and Family Kare -
Thomas
Kids and Family Kare
Alma Lira Medical Assistant Kids and Family Kare
Thomas Kids and Family Kare
Project Charter
Project Team Members
Name Team Role
Signatures
Process Owner Malca Cortez
Project Champion Dr Carlos Lopez