Description:
Project Name: Community Cares Utilization and Data Management
Clinic: A New Leaf
Process: Monitoring and reporting referral data for improved utilization and outcomes.
TIP 2.0 Process Milestone: Connect to and demonstrate effective use of the statewide closed loop referral
system (Community Cares), or other closed loop referral system(s) that can report
referral-level details, to connect members seen to community resources.
Project Description / Purpose
Enter a brief description of the project, the purpose for conducting the project and a general description of what is
expected to result from the project.
Our agency utilizes Community Cares closed loop referral system to connect members to community resources. This
referral platform was launched across programs in January 2023 . During the first implementation phase in our agency,
staff were provided access, trained, and a high level oversight and monitoring was occurring as we adopted the
platform into several programs. The agency has since been using the system more regularly and data reporting and
metrics have become available recently through a Workforce Management Dashboard. Our project is for
Management/Director level staff to understand, utilize, and be able to monitor outcomes for their programs utilizing
the new dashboard and reports available. Information and data can then drive process improvements and efficiencies,
help identify gaps in services, and create potential networking opportunities that benefit clients and programs.

Overview:
Problem Summary:
Enter description of problem or performance gap identified here. Include descriptions of
the impact to staff and/or patients.
Since adoption and implementation of Community Cares, there has not been a
consistent and efficient process to monitor staff usage of the system and outcomes of
referrals submitted/received.
Desired Outcome(s):
Describe the desired outcome(s) of the project
The agency will fully utilize the data reporting system, Workforce Dashboard, to
monitor staff usage and outcomes of referrals submitted/received.
Management/Director level staff will be trained and able to run, monitor, and evaluate
data and reports that may improve processes, identify gaps in services, and create
standards for staff utilization.
Benefits:
Enter a description of the expected benefits here
By having reports and data that are understood and monitored by managers/directors,
this provides oversight on many levels. Standards can be created for staff that holds
them accountable for utilization and follow through on referrals for clients, supervisors
are monitoring and managing outcomes for their staff and programs, and leadership is
able to clearly understand any gaps in services or resources.

Timeline:
Description of Task and Completion Dates
Task 1
Training on Workforce Dashboard for Directors to understand capabilities and functionality of reporting
system. Training completed with Sebastian Blackwell, Customer Success Executive for Unite Us, on
6/5/24
Task 2 Review monthly reports that will be ran and data to be reported to leadership monthly. Create a guide
for the agency that outlines reports and required monitoring timeframes. Completion date of 7/15/24
Task 3 Collaborate with Directors to determine staff utilization standards for each program and communicate
expectations to staff. Completion date of 8/15/24
Task 4 Provide update on project at Senior Leadership team meeting which includes standards, monthly
outcomes, and any process improvement needs identified. Completion date of 9/9/24
Task 5 Review quarterly data at Director meeting to identify gaps in services and resources, and networking
opportunities. Completion date by 9/20/24

Scope:
In Scope Project Objectives
Enter a description of the objectives that are in scope here.
All tasks that are currently scheduled are in line with our scope of work and relative to our Milestone for T.I.2.0.
Connecting clients to resources and making referrals for HRSNs (internal and external), utilizing the Community
Cares referral system, and monitoring staff, program, and client outcomes through an efficient and effective
reporting system.
Out of Scope Project Objectives or Activities
Enter description of the objectives or activities that are out of scope here.
Our project extends to all A New Leaf programs and not limited to the program included in T.I. 2.0.

Team:
Team Lead: Angela Abad Project Champion:
Process Owner: Angela Abad Process Manager:
Stakeholders
Stakeholder Title Department Organization
Robin Bertolini Sr. Information Systems
Manager Information Technology A New Leaf
Karen Brown Director of Strategic
Initiatives Administrative A New Leaf
Pamela Arp Information Systems
Applications Lead Information Technology A New Leaf
Project Team Members
Name Team Role
Michelle Boyle Director
Dana Martinez Director
Toni Davis Director
Eva Felix Director
James Diaz Director
Sarah Rojas Director